\"
\"  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH clockd "1" "March 2013" "Clockwork" "Clockwork Master"
.SH NAME
.PP
clockd \- Clockwork Master

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBclockd\fR [options]
.PP
\fBclockd\fR -c /path/to/clockd.conf
.PP
\fBclockd\fR -Fvvv

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBClockwork\fR is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.
.PP
It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.
.PP
\fBclockd\fR is the Policy Master component of Clockwork.  It
holds all of the policies for all managed systems, and gives them
out to the \fBclockd\fR agents when they connect.
.PP
\fBclockd\fR is also responsible for hosting and serving file
contents to clients that need to update file resources.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.PP
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
.RS 8
Print version and copyright information.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-c, \-\-config\fR \fI/path/to/clockd.conf\fR
.RS 8
Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not
given, the default configuration file (/etc/clockwork/clockd.conf)
is used instead.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 8
Disable logging.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 8
Increase verbosity by one level.  Can be used more than once.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-test\fR
.RS 8
Test clockd configuration and environment.  Not only does this
check config file and manifest syntax, it also checks the system
filesystem to ensure that configured files and directories exist,
and are readable or writable.
.PP
Administrators are strongly encouraged to run \fBclockd -t\fR
whenever changing configuration.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-show-config\fR
.RS 8
Once \fBclockd\fR has determined its running configuration, have
it print that to standard output and exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-foreground\fR
.RS 8
Normally, \fBclockd\fR forks into the background and detaches from
the controlling terminal, so that it can run as a system service.
This flag disabled that behavior.  As a side effect, all logging
will be forced to go to standard output, regardless of what syslog
facility is specified in the configuration file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B /etc/clockwork/clockd.conf
Default configuration file that \fBclockd\fR reads on start up.
See \fBclockd.conf\fR(5) for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBcwa\fR(1), \fBclockd.conf\fR(5) and
\fBcwa.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
