\"
\"  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH clockd.conf "5" "May 2014" "Clockwork" "Clockwork File Formats"
.SH NAME
.PP
clockd.conf \- Clockwork Master configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/clockwork/clockd.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBclockd\fR(1) reads its configuration from
\fI/etc/clockwork/clockd.conf\fR (unless a different file is
specified with the \-c option).
.PP

Valid configuration directives, and their meanings, are as follows:

.PP
\fBlisten\fR \- Listen directive
.PP
.RS 4
This specifies what interfaces/addresses \fBclockd\fR should bind
to, for inbound connections from \fBcogd\fR agents.  The default
port is \fI2314\fR, and most of the time you'll want to listen on
any available interface.  This is the default, \fI*:2314\fB.
.RE

.PP
\fBmanifest\fR \- Policy Manifest File
.PP
.RS 4
The manifest contains all of the policy definitions, and what
clients they should be given to.
.RE

.PP
\fBcopydown\fR \- Copydown Source Directory
.PP
.RS 4
Clients connecting to \fBclockd\fR start their configuration runs
by performing a \fBCOPYDOWN\fR, in which they copy static files
(usually gatherer scripts) locally.
.PP
This setting determines what files are included in the copydown
archive.  Paths will be relative to the client's \fBcopydown\fR
setting.
.PP
Defaults to \fI/etc/clockwork/gather.d\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fBsecurity.strict\fR - Security Mode
.PP
.RS 4
When clients connect, \fBclockd\fR will always check that they have a
secured channel (thus validating their public/private keypair).  For
production sites, it is also a good idea to check that the client has been
pre-authenticated, by checking against a list of trusted public key
fingerprints, the so-called \fItrust database\fR, or \fItrustdb\fR.
.PP
Setting \fBsecurity.strict\fR to \fIyes\fR (the default) engages this
behavior.
.PP
Environments (usually not mission-critical, like testbeds and experimental
labs) can bypass this extra security by setting security.strict to \fIno\fR.
This is \fBnot recommended\fR for production deployments!
.RE

.PP
\fBsecurity.trusted\fR - Trust Database
.PP
.RS 4
Under strict mode, the trust database is consulted to ensure that remote
clients are trusted to receive policy and file data, which could contain
sensitive and/or privileged information.
.PP
The trust database can be managed by hand, or by the \fBcwtrust\fR(1) tool.
.PP
Defaults to \fI/etc/clockwork/certs/trusted\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fBsecurity.cert\fR \- Master Certificate
.PP
.RS 4
This certificate is used to identify this \fBclockd\fR instance to
connecting clients.  It must contain both the public and private keys.
.PP
Defaults to \fI/etc/clockwork/certs/clockd\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fBccache.connections\fR \- Connection Cache Entries
.PP
.RS 4
This configuration option lets you size the connection cache to
the infrastructure.  For each client that connects, \fBclockd\fR
keeps an entry in the connection cache to keep track of the
generated policy, known facts, etc.  Cache entries are purged
regularly, pursuant to \fBccache.expiration\fR, to make room for
new client connections.
.PP
The value chosen for the connection cache size depends on the
number of concurrent clients you expect \fBclockd\fR to service.
For most environments the default size of \fI2048\fR entries
should be sufficient.
.RE

.PP
\fBccache.expiration\fR \- Connection Cache Expiration
.PP
.RS 4
\fBclockd\fR keeps track of each client that connects, by storing
their state information in an entry in the connection cache.  This
configuration option lets you adjust how soon \fBclockd\fR will
try to reclaim stale entries for use in new client connections.
.PP
This value is specified in seconds.
.RE

.PP
\fBpidfile\fR \- PID file for storing the daemon process ID
.PP
.RS 4
.PP
Defaults to \fI/var/run/clockd.conf\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fBsyslog.ident\fR \- Syslog identity string
.PP
.RS 4
.PP
Defaults to \fIclockd\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fBsyslog.facility\fR \- Syslog facility for logging
.PP
.RS 4
.PP
Defaults to \fIdaemon\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fBsyslog.level\fR \- Log level
.PP
.RS 4
Valid values are:
.RS 4
.IP \fBcritical\fR 1i
Fatal issues that cause immediate termination.
.IP \fBerror\fR
Non-fatal issues that prevent proper system operation.
.IP \fBwarning\fR
Minor problems that do not hinder system operation.
.IP \fBnotice\fR
Informational messages that assist in system diagnostics.
.IP \fBinfo\fR
More in-depth informational messages, for troubleshooting.
.IP \fBdebug\fR
Messages for chasing down bugs.
.RE
.PP
Each level includes all "more important" levels.  \fBwarning\fR
will log \fBcritical\fR and \fBerror\fR messages.  \fBnotice\fR is
everything but debugging messages, etc.
.PP
A good starting point is \fIwarning\fR; default is \fIerror\fR.
.RE

.SH
EXAMPLES

Here is the default configuration, made explicit:

.nf
    listen              *:2314
    pidfile             /var/run/clockd.pid
    manifest            /etc/clockwork/manifest.pol
    copydown            /etc/clockwork/gather.d

    security.strict     yes
    security.trusted    /etc/clockwork/certs/trusted
    security.cert       /etc/clockwork/certs/clockd

    ccache.connections  2048
    ccache.expiration   600

    syslog.ident        clockd
    syslog.facility     daemon
    syslog.level        error
.fi

.SH
SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBclockd\fR(1), \fBcogd\fR(1) and
\fBcogd.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
