 Copyright 2011-2015 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

 This file is part of Clockwork.

 Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.

 Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 NAME

cogd - Clockwork Agent

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cogd> [options]

B<cogd> -c /path/to/cogd.conf

B<cogd> -Fv[vv...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Clockwork> is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.

It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.

B<cogd> is the agent component of Clockwork that runs on
managed hosts.  It is responsible for retrieving the host's policy
from a master server and taking whatever steps necessary to bring
the host back into line with that policy.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information, and then exit.

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I</path/to/cogd.conf>

Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not
given, the default configuration file (/etc/clockwork/cogd.conf)
is used instead.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Increase logging verbosity by one level.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Disable logging.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

Normally, B<cogd> forks into the background and detaches from
the controlling terminal, so that it can run as a system service.
This flag disabled that behavior.  As a side effect, all logging
will be forced to go to standard output, regardless of what syslog
facility is specified in the configuration file.

=item B<-S>, B<--show-config>

Once B<cogd> has determined its running configuration, have it
print that to standard output and exit.

=item B<-T>, B<--trace>

Enable B<TRACE> mode on the Pendulum runtime.  See
B<clockwork>(7) for details on Pendulum, including what it is,
why we use it, and what you can do with it.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item B</etc/clockwork/cogd.conf>

Default configuration file that B<cogd> reads on start up.  See
B<cogd.conf>(5) for details.

=item B</var/lock/cogd/cfm.lock>

Lock file that is created to ensure that only a single configuration
management run is undertaken at any one time.  This lock governs
B<cogd> in foreground, one-off (B<-F1>) mode and as a daemon.

=item B</var/lock/cogd/cfm.KILLSWITCH>

If this file exists, B<cogd> will refuse to start its configuration
management run.  This allows system admins to properly disable Clockwork
temporarily.  This applies to daemon and standalone modes.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
