\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH cogd "1" "May 2014" "Clockwork" "Clockwork Agent"
.SH NAME
.PP
cogd \- Clockwork Agent

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcogd\fR [options]
.PP
\fBcogd\fR -c /path/to/cogd.conf
.PP
\fBcogd\fR -Fvvv

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBClockwork\fR is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.
.PP
It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.
.PP
\fBcogd\fR is the agent component of Clockwork that runs on
managed hosts.  It is responsible for retrieving the host's policy
from a master server and taking whatever steps necessary to bring
the host back into line with that policy.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 8
Print version and copyright information, and then exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fI/path/to/cogd.conf\fR
.RS 8
Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not
given, the default configuration file (/etc/clockwork/cogd.conf)
is used instead.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 8
Increase logging verbosity by one level.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 8
Disable logging.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-foreground\fR
.RS 8
Normally, \fBcogd\fR forks into the background and detaches from
the controlling terminal, so that it can run as a system service.
This flag disabled that behavior.  As a side effect, all logging
will be forced to go to standard output, regardless of what syslog
facility is specified in the configuration file.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-show-config\fR
.RS 8
Once \fBcogd\fR has determined its running configuration, have it
print that to standard output and exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-trace\fR
.RS 8
Enable \fBTRACE\fR mode on the Pendulum runtime.  See
\fBclockwork\fR(7) for details on Pendulum, including what it is,
why we use it, and what you can do with it.
.RE

.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B /etc/clockwork/cogd.conf
Default configuration file that
.B cogd
reads on start up.  See \fBcogd.conf\fR(5) for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBclockd\fR(1), \fBclockd.conf\fR(5) and
\fBcogd.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
