  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

cw-cert - Clockwork Certificate Generator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cw-cert> [options]

B<cw-cert> -i host.identity -f ./certs/newcert

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Clockwork> is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.

It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.

B<cw-cert> is a utility for generating Clockwork certificates,
which consist of a public / secret keypair and an identity.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-i>, B<--identity> I<host.identity.string>

Override the identity of the generated certificate.  By default, the
fully-qualified domain name of the local host is used.  You can set this
to any value you like; it is only used to help people keep track of what
certificate belongs to whom.

=item B<-f>, B<--file> I</path/to/output/cert>

Specify where the output certificate should be written.  A combined
certificate (see B<CERTIFICATE FORMATS>, later) will be written to the
named file, and a public certificate will be written to I<FILE>.pub.

Target files must not already exist; B<cw-cert> will refuse to overwrite
existing certificates.  Created files will have proper permissions,
B<0600> for the combined certificate (which contains the secret key) and
B<0644> for the public certificate.

Defaults to I<./cwcert>, which will create I<cwcert> and
I<cwcert.pub> in the current directory.

=back

=head1 CERTIFICATE FORMATS

Clockwork certificates come in two formats, B<combined> and B<public>.

B<Combined> certificates contain the identity, and both keys (public, and
private).  These should never be exposed, since the secret key is supposed
to remain, well, secret.

Here's an example combined certificate:

    id  example.com
    pub fb5cf56fabc8f9e85294f1af3e968bd02d6ebae801a76331124b94a307f57875
    sec 19a5ac2825251bb2d2011ecc3c9dffcaf7ab666cc0a3cddde43620e6dff57387

The B<id>, B<pub> and B<sec> labels denote the certificate
identity, public key (in hexadecimal encoding) and private key (also in
hex).

A B<public> certificate is just a combined certificate without the secret
key:

    id  example.com
    pub fb5cf56fabc8f9e85294f1af3e968bd02d6ebae801a76331124b94a307f57875

These can be shared with anyone, since the public key alone is not enough to
break the encryption.

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
