  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

cw-fact - Clockwork Agent Fact Utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cw-fact> [options]

B<cw-fact> -c /path/to/cogd.conf

B<cw-fact> sys.fqdn sys.hostname

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Clockwork> is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.

It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.

B<cw-fact> is a small utility that will gather system facts the
way B<cogd> does, and print them to standard output.

If you don't specify any fact arguments, all facts will be printed.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information, and then exit.

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I</path/to/cogd.conf>

Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not
given, the default configuration file (/etc/clockwork/cogd.conf)
is used instead.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Increase logging verbosity by one level.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Disable logging.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item B</etc/clockwork/cogd.conf>

Default configuration file that B<cogd>
reads on start up.  See B<cogd.conf>(5) for details.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
