
  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

  This file is part of Clockwork.

  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

cw-shell - Clockwork Policy Shell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cw-shell> [options] I</path/to/manifest/file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Clockwork>
is a system configuration management system designed to securely enforce
policies on one or more host systems.  It can ensure that files have the
prescribed attributes (owner, group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It
can maintain a specific set of installed packages, and even make sure that
system user accounts exist.

B<cw-shell>
is a utility for administrators and policy developers that exposes the
internals of a policy manifest, letting you explore how a policy would
be implemented by the client agents.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-e>, B<--execute> I<command>

Execute arbitrary commands.  Multiple commands must be separated by
a semi-colon (;) with optional whitespace.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show a brief summary of the options that B<cw-shell> takes.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Increase the verbosity of B<cw-shell>.  Can be used multple
times; each time it increases the log level by one.

B<Note:> B<cw-shell> doesn't log to a file, it write all log messages
to standard output.  If you wish to save cw-shell output, use your shell's
IO redirection capabilities.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information, and then exit.  If specified,
any command script is ignored, as well as the B<-e> option.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

In interactive mode and script interpreter mode, B<cw-shell> always
exits with status 0.

If B<-e> is used, B<cw-shell> exits with status 0 if all commands
completed successfully, and exits non-zero when the first command
(which may be the only command) fails.

=head1 FILES

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
