  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

cw-trust - Clockwork Trust Database Utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cw-trust> [OPTIONS] --trust cert.pub other-cert.pub

B<cw-trust> [OPTIONS] --revoke bad.pub

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Clockwork> is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.

It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.

B<cw-trust> is a utility for managing a database of trusted Clockwork
certificates, which is called a I<trust database>, or just I<trustdb>
for short.  It allows site administrators to trust or revoke certificates.

When B<clockd> is running in B<security.strict> mode, it will consult
a trust database to determine if client B<cogd> instances are trusted
enough to receive potentially sensitive policy and configuration files.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d>, B<--database> I</path/to/trustdb>

Specify the path to the trust database to update or create.  If the file
does not exist, it will be created for you.

Defaults to I</etc/clockwork/certs/trusted>.

=item B<-t>, B<--trust>

Add certificates given on the command line to the trust database.
This is the default mode of B<cw-trust>.

=item B<-r>, B<--revoke>

Remove the certificates given on the command line from the trust database,
if they are currently trusted.

=back

=head1 TRUSTDB FORMAT

A trustdb is really just a list of the trusted certificates, each accounted
for by public key (in hexadecimal encoding) and the identity of the
certificate (for human consumption).  The database files are simple text
files that can be viewed and edited manually.

Here is an example database file:

    fb5cf56fabc8f9e85294f1af3e968bd02d6ebae801a76331124b94a307f57875 host1.example.com
    417b7f7946b6c65db58e86c5a66cbc698dbd1b15492e29372f927cf91620947e other-host

Empty lines will be ignored, as will any line starting with the comment
character, B<'#'>.  Keep in mind, however, that B<cw-trust> will strip
out all of the comments and reformat the trustdb.

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
