
  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

  This file is part of Clockwork.

  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

cw.conf - Global Configuration for B<cw> Utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B</etc/clockwork/cw.conf>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cw>(1) reads its configuration from I</etc/clockwork/cw.conf>, and then
attempts to read a similar file containing overrides, at I<~/.cwrc>.

Valid configuration directives, and their meanings, are as follows:

=over

=item B<mesh.master> - Mesh Master Server

Mesh master servers are the fixed points in the Clockwork Mesh architecture.
They are responsible for listening to clients, authenticating and relaying
queries to all subscribed B<cogd> nodes, giving back the appropriate
responses.

The master server must be identified by both its endpoint IP address and TCP
port number.  The standard Clockwork port for Mesh master servers is
TCP/2315.

=item B<mesh.cert> - Master Server Certificates

The Mesh master server will be authenticated by connecting clients via its
public certificate (which contains only the public key component).  This
helps to ensure that the B<cw> client is talking to the correct Mesh server.

=item B<mesh.timeout> - Mesh Response Timeout

How long (in seconds) B<cw> will continue to ask the Mesh master server for
replies to its query before it gives up and exits.  Since there is no way of
determining up-front how many nodes I<should> reply, B<cw> must wait out the
entire span of the timeout.

Defaults to I<40> seconds.  Values of 0 or less will be treated as this
default.

=item B<mesh.sleep> - Client Inter-check Sleep Interval

How long (in milliseconds) B<cw> will pause between result checks.  This
gives the Mesh server some respite from over-eager clients.

Defaults to I<250> milliseconds.  The minimum value is I<100> milliseconds.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

This is the default configuration, plus a single master server at
10.0.0.5:2314:

    mesh.timeout 40
    mesh.sleep   250

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
