\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH cwcc "1" "May 2014" "Clockwork" "Clockwork Master"
.SH NAME
.PP
cwcc \- Clockwork Policy Compiler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcwcc\fR manifest.pol

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBClockwork\fR is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.
.PP
It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.
.PP
\fBcwcc\fR is a utility that will compile a manifest of policies,
in a fashion similar to \fBclockd\fR.  It will then dump the
abstract syntax tree to standard output, calculate some memory
usage statistics and exit.
.PP
\fBcwcc\fR is intended to be used to debug and troubleshoot
Clockwork.
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBclockd\fR(1), \fBclockd.conf\fR(5) and
\fBcogd.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
