.TH cwpol "1" "August 2011" "Clockwork" "Clockwork Policy Agent"
.SH NAME
cwpol \- Clockwork Policy Explorer
.br
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cwpol
[options]
.I /path/to/manifest/file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Clockwork
is a system configuration management system designed to securely enforce
policies on one or more host systems.  It can ensure that files have the
prescribed attributes (owner, group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It
can maintain a specific set of installed packages, and even make sure that
system user accounts exist.
.PP
.B cwpol
is a utility for administrators and policy developers that exposes the
internals of a policy manifest, letting you explore how a policy would
be implemented by the client agents.

.SH OPTIONS

\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-execute\fR \fIcommand\fR
.RS 8
Execute arbitrary commands.  Multiple commands must be separated by
a semi-colon (;) with optional whitespace.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 8
Show a brief summary of the options that \fBcwpol\fR takes.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 8
Increase the verbosity of \fBcwpol\fR.  Can be used multple
times; each time it increases the log level by one.
.PP
\fBNote: cwpol\fR doesn't log to a file, it write all log messages
to standard output.  If you wish to save cwpol output, use your shell's
IO redirection capabilities.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 8
Print version and copyright information, and then exit.  If specified,
any command script is ignored, as well as the \fB\-e\fR option.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
In interactive mode and script interpreter mode, \fBcwpol\fR always
exits with status 0.
.PP
If \fB-e\fR is used, \fBcwpol\fR exits with status 0 if all commands
completed successfully, and exits non-zero when the first command
(which may be the only command) fails.

.SH FILES
None

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBpolicyd\fR(1), \fBpolicyd.conf\fR(5) and \fBcwa.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Clockwork was conceived and written by James Hunt.
.PP
Original ideas were stolen from
.B CFEngine
(Mark Burgess) and
.B Puppet
(Luke Kanies).

.SH BUGS
Lots.  Clockwork is still evolving, and your input is appreciated.
.PP
Unfortunately, Clockwork doesn\(cqt even have a web site, let alone a
worthwhile bug tracker.  Send bugs to
.B filefrog@gmail.com
with the word 'clockwork' in the subject.
