
  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

  This file is part of Clockwork.

  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

meshd.conf - Clockwork Mesh Server configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B</etc/clockwork/meshd.conf>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<meshd>(1) reads its configuration from
I</etc/clockwork/meshd.conf> (unless a different file is
specified with the -c option).

Valid configuration directives, and their meanings, are as follows:

=over

=item B<broadcast> - Broadcast Channel bind address

This specifies what interfaces/addresses B<meshd> should bind
to for publishing commands to subscribed B<cogd>(1) nodes.

The standard port is I<2315>, and most of the time you'll want
to listen on any available interface.
This is the default, I<*:2315>.

=item B<control> - Control Channel bind address

This specifies what interfaces/addresses B<meshd> should bind
to for accepting inbound queries from clients, as well as result
messages from subscribed B<cogd>(1) nodes.

The standard port is I<2316>, and most of the time you'll want
to listen on any available interface.
This is the default, I<*:2316>.

=item B<security.cert> - Master Certificate

This certificate is used to identify this B<meshd> instance to
connecting clients and B<cogd> nodes.
It must contain both the public and private keys.

Defaults to I</etc/clockwork/certs/meshd>.

=item B<auth.service> - PAM Authentication Service

For password-based authentication, where the remote user provides
their username and password, B<meshd> will use PAM to verify the
credentials.  This gives the system administrator full control
over the authentication policy in play for Mesh.

Defaults to I<clockwork>.

=item B<auth.trusted> - Public Key Trust Database

For public-key authentication, where the remote user proves that
they have access to the private component of a user keypair,
B<meshd> uses a trust database to keep track of what public keys
have been marked as trusted for what usernames.

The trust database is a flat file containing only publicly
available information, so it doesn't need any special permissions.

Defaults to I</etc/clockwork/auth/trusted>.

The trust database can be managed with the B<cw-trust> tool.

=item B<query_cache.size> - Query Cache Size

This configuration option lets you size the query cache to
the infrastructure.  For each query that B<meshd> fields,
it places an entry in the query connection cache to keep track
of the query results.
Cache entries are purged
regularly, pursuant to B<qcache.expiration>, to make room for
new client queries.

The value chosen for the connection cache size depends on the
number of concurrent queries you expect B<meshd> to service.
For most environments the default size of I<2048> entries
should be sufficient.

=item B<query_cache.expiration> - Query Cache Expiration

Controls how long B<meshd> will wait before purging queries
from its query cache.  The I<age> of a query is calculated
starting from the last time the requesting client retrieved results
for it (not as an absolute time since query submission).

This value is specified in seconds.

=item B<pidfile> - PID file for storing the daemon process ID

Defaults to I</var/run/meshd.pid>.

=item B<syslog.ident> - Syslog identity string

Defaults to I<meshd>.

=item B<syslog.facility> - Syslog facility for logging

Defaults to I<daemon>.

=item B<syslog.level> - Log level

Valid values are:

=over

=item B<critical>

Fatal issues that cause immediate termination.

=item B<error>

Non-fatal issues that prevent proper system operation.

=item B<warning>

Minor problems that do not hinder system operation.

=item B<notice>

Informational messages that assist in system diagnostics.

=item B<info>

More in-depth informational messages, for troubleshooting.

=item B<debug>

Messages for chasing down bugs.

=back

Each level includes all "more important" levels.  B<warning>
will log B<critical> and B<error> messages.  B<notice> is
everything but debugging messages, etc.

A good starting point is I<warning>; default is I<error>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is the default configuration, made explicit:

    listen              *:2314
    pidfile             /var/run/meshd.pid
    manifest            /etc/clockwork/manifest.pol
    copydown            /etc/clockwork/gather.d

    security.strict     yes
    security.trusted    /etc/clockwork/certs/trusted
    security.cert       /etc/clockwork/certs/meshd

    ccache.connections  2048
    ccache.expiration   600

    syslog.ident        meshd
    syslog.facility     daemon
    syslog.level        error

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
