
  Copyright 2011-2015 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

  This file is part of Clockwork.

  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

meshd - Clockwork Mesh Master

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<meshd> [options]

B<meshd> -c /path/to/meshd.conf

B<meshd> -Fvvv

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<meshd> is the Clockwork Mesh Master server.  It handles COMMAND broadcast
and query submission / result retrieval for Mesh clients.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-c> B<--config> I</path/to/meshd.conf>

Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not
given, the default configuration file (/etc/clockwork/meshd.conf)
is used instead.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Disable logging.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Increase verbosity by one level.  Can be used more than once.

=item B<-t>, B<--test>

Test meshd configuration and environment.  This checks both configuration
file syntax and the validity of the specified B<security.cert>.

=item B<-S>, B<--show-config>

Once B<meshd> has determined its running configuration, have
it print that to standard output and exit.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

Normally, B<meshd> forks into the background and detaches from
the controlling terminal, so that it can run as a system service.
This flag disabled that behavior.  As a side effect, all logging
will be forced to go to standard output, regardless of what syslog
facility is specified in the configuration file.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item B</etc/clockwork/meshd.conf>

Default configuration file that B<meshd> reads on start up.
See B<meshd.conf>(5) for details.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
