\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH fact "1" "June 2014" "Clockwork" "Pendulum Interpreter"
.SH NAME
.PP
pn \- Pendulum Interpreter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpn\fR [options] script.pn

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBClockwork\fR is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.
.PP
It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.
.PP
\fBpn\fR is a standalone interpreter for the Pendulum language,
which is what \fBcogd\fR uses internally to apply policies to the
local machine.
.PP
\fBpn\fR is not for everyone.  In fact, most people will never need
the run snippets of Pendulum code outside the scope of \fBcogd\fR.
\fBpn\fR really shines when used to aide in debugging Clockwork,
and as an exploratory utility for writing new resource types.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 8
Print version and copyright information, and then exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 8
Increase logging verbosity by one level.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 8
Disable logging.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-trace\fR
.RS 8
Enable \fBTRACE\fR mode while executing the script.
In this mode, \fBpn\fR will print debugging messages to standard
error that should help to illustrate what opcodes it is executing,
what user-defined functions are doing, branching decisions and more.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-syslog\fR \fIFACILITY\fR
.RS 8
Redirect all output to syslog, using the target facility.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBclockd\fR(1), \fBclockd.conf\fR(5) and
\fBcogd.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
