  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

pn - Pendulum Interpreter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pn> [options] script.pn

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Clockwork> is a configuration management system designed to
securely and correctly enforce configuration policies on lots of
hosts.

It can ensure that files have the right attributes (owner,
group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It can maintain a specific
set of installed packages, and even make sure that system user
accounts exist.

B<pn> is a standalone interpreter for the Pendulum language,
which is what B<cogd> uses internally to apply policies to the
local machine.

B<pn> is not for everyone.  In fact, most people will never need
the run snippets of Pendulum code outside the scope of B<cogd>.
B<pn> really shines when used to aide in debugging Clockwork,
and as an exploratory utility for writing new resource types.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information, and then exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Increase logging verbosity by one level.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Disable logging.

=item B<-T>, B<--trace>

Enable B<TRACE> mode while executing the script.
In this mode, B<pn> will print debugging messages to standard
error that should help to illustrate what opcodes it is executing,
what user-defined functions are doing, branching decisions and more.

=item B<--syslog> I<FACILITY>

Redirect all output to syslog, using the target facility.

=item B<--debug>

Enable debug-level logging.  Useful for development, but not much else.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
