\"
\"  Copyright 2011 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH res_file "5" "June 2011" "Clockwork" " Clockwork Resource Types"'"
\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
res_file \- Clockwork Resource Type for managing files
.br

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
A fair portion of Linux system administration involves creating and
maintaining configuration files.  The \fBres_file\fR resource for
Clockwork automates much of this work by allowing an administrator
to specify almost every attribute of a file in a system policy:
.PP
.RS 4
.nr attrs 1 1
.IP \n[attrs]. 3
.B Ownership
(user and group)

.IP \n+[attrs].
.B Permissions

.IP \n+[attrs].
.B Contents
(both static and dynamic)

.RE
.PP


\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ATTRIBUTES

.B owner
.RS 4
The name or UID of the user who should own the file.
.RE
.PP

.B group
.RS 4
The name or GID of the group who should own this file.
.RE
.PP

.B mode
.RS 4
The permissions set for this file.  The value must be
specified in octal notation, i.e. 0755 for rwxr-xr-x.
.RE
.PP

.B source
.RS 4
The path (from the policy master's point of view) to the source file.
If specified, the client-side file will be updated to match this static
file.
.PP
Has no affect on directories, hard links or symbolic links.
.RE
.PP

.B template
.RS 4
The path (from the policy master's point of view) to a source file template.
Like the
.B source
attribute, specifying this will cause the client-side file to be updated
from the copy on the master.  A template, however, is evaluated against
the client's set of facts and a custom source file is generated.
.PP
Has no affect on directories, hard links or symbolic links.
.RE
.PP

.B path
.RS 4
The path (from the client's point of view) to the file to be managed.
.RE
.PP

.B present
.RS 4
Whether or not this file should exist.  Valid values are
"yes" and "no".  The default value is "yes".
.RE
.PP


\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Ownership and Permissions
Ensure ownership and permissions on /etc/sudoers:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
file "/etc/sudoers" {
    owner: "root"
    group: "root"
    mode:  "0440" # required mode for sudo to work
}
.fi
.RE
.PP

.SS Complete Control
In this scenario, local changes to /etc/foo.conf, including edits,
file removal, and ownership / permissions changes will be undone
by the Clockwork agent.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
file "/etc/foo.conf" {
    owner:  "foo"
    group:  "root"
    mode:   "0640"
    source: "/clockwork/files/foo.conf"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP

.SS Templates
Templates can be used to flexibly push out files that are similar
on all hosts, but differ with host-specific details.  Assuming the
following template (/clockwork/templates/banner.tpl):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
------------------------------------------------------------------
<%= sys.fqdn %> - Widgets Co. Ltd.

Unauthorized access to this machine is prohibited.
Use of this system is limited to authorized individuals only.
All activity is monitored.
------------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.RE
.PP
This host resource will enforce a banner for all hosts that contains
the standard "warning" verbiage as well as the local hostname:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
file "/etc/banner" {
    owner:    "root"
    group:    "root"
    mode:     "0400"
    template: "/clockwork/templates/banner.tpl"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
When evaluated on the host named 'labs.example.net', /etc/banner
will contain the following (emphasis added):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
------------------------------------------------------------------
\fBlabs.example.net\fR - Widgets Co. Ltd.

Unauthorized access to this machine is prohibited.
Use of this system is limited to authorized individuals only.
All activity is monitored.
------------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.RE
.PP

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH CAVEATS

.SS 1. Link Support
Symbolic links and hard links cannot yet be created wth the file
resource.
.PP

.SS 2. UID / GID Support
Even though the documentation above says that the \fBowner\fR and
\fBgroup\fR attributes can be set to either a name or an ID, the
system only works with names.  IDs will be ignored, as if the ID
was 0.
.PP

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DEPENDENCIES
File resources implicitly create the following dependencies:
.PP
.SS User Owner (owner)
If the
.B owner
attribute is specified, the file resource will depend on the
existence of that user.  This is designed to ensure that files are
owned by valid system users.
.PP

.SS Group Owner (group)
If the
.B group
attribute is specified, the file resource will depend on the
existence of that group.  This is designed to ensure that files are
owned by valid system groups.
.PP

.SS Parent Directories
All parent components of the file path will be created if the file
should exist and does not.  By default, these parent directories
will be owned by root:root with mode 0755.  However, if the policy
defines \fBres_dir\fR(5) resources with paths matching any component
of the parent directory chain, the file resource will be set to
depend on them.
.PP
An example should clear up any confusion:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
file "/u/apps/test.example.net/index.html" {
    owner: "apache"
    group: "web"
    mode:  0664
    source: "/srv/clockwork/www/under-constr.html"
}

dir "/u/apps" {
    owner: "webmaster"
    group: "web"
    mode:  0755
}

dir "/u/apps/test.example.net" {
    owner: "apache"
    group: "web"
    mode:  0775
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the above policy was enforced on a host without the /u directory,
the following would happen (in order):
.PP
.nr steps 1 1
.IP \n[steps]. 3
Create /u, per defaults (root:root; 0755)
.IP \n+[steps].
Create /u/apps, per policy (webmaster:web; 0755)
.IP \n+[steps].
Create /u/apps/test.example.net, per policy (apache:web; 0775)
.IP \n+[steps].
Create the file and retrieve its contents from the policy master.
.PP

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Clockwork was conceived and written by James Hunt.
.PP
Original ideas were stolen from
.B CFEngine
(Mark Burgess) and
.B Puppet
(Luke Kanies).

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH BUGS
None.
