\"
\"  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH res_service "5" "March 2013" "Clockwork" " Clockwork Resource Types"'"
\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.PP
res_service \- Clockwork Resource Type for system init services

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The service resource manages system services, normally found in
/etc/init.d.  It can be used to restart or reload services in
response to other system configuration changes through explicit
dependencies.  It can also be used to enable or disable specific
services on boot.
.PP
To manage boot-time services, Clockwork relies on the native service
management tools like chkconfig.  The following tools are currently
supported:
.PP
.IP 1. 3
.B invoke-rc.d
\- For Debian and Ubuntu
.IP 2.
.B chkconfig
\- For RedHat / CentOS

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.PP

.B name
.br
.B service
.RS 8
The name of the service, derived from its init script name in
/etc/init.d.
.RE
.PP

.B running
.br
.B stopped
.RS 8
Whether or not the service should be alive and running.  Valid
values are "yes" and "no".  There is no default value; if not
specified, Clockwork will not inspect the running state of the
service.
.PP
Which attribute you use is a matter of personal preference.
.PP
.B running = "yes"
has the same meaning as
.B stopped = "no"
.PP
.B running = "no"
has the same meaning as
.B stopped = "yes"
.RE
.PP

.B enabled
.br
.B disabled
.RS 8
Whether or not the service should be started at boot.  Valid
values are "yes" and "no".  There is no default value; if not
specified, Clockwork will not inspect the boot-state of the
service.
.PP
Which attribute you use is a matter of personal preference.
.PP
.B enabled = "yes"
has the same meaning as
.B disabled = "no"
.PP
.B enabled = "no"
has the same meaning as
.B disabled = "yes"
.PP

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Starting and Enabling Services
.PP
To ensure that SSH is running, and that it will automatically
start when the system boots:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
service "sshd" {
    running: "yes"
    enabled: "yes"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
If you are of a pessimistic persuasion, you can use double negatives
to accomplish the same thing:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
service "sshd" {
    stopped:  "no"
    disabled: "no"
}
.fi
.RE

.SS Stopping and Disabling Services
.PP
To ensure that avahi never runs, ever:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
service "avahi-daemon" {
    running:  "no"
    disabled: "yes"
}
.fi
.RE

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH CAVEATS

.SS 1. Default Behavior
.PP
By default, Clockwork does nothing with services unless you tell
it what to do.  For example, this policy snippet is useless:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
service "apache" { }
.fi
.RE

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
The service resource does not create implicit dependencies, but
you can leverage explicit dependencies to reload services when their
configuration changes.
.PP
For example, to restart syslog-ng when its global configuration file
changes:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
file "/etc/syslog-ng.conf" {
    # configuration omitted for clarity
}

service "syslog-ng" {
    running: "yes"
    enabled: "yes"
}

service("syslog-ng") depends on file("/etc/syslog-ng.conf")
.fi
.RE
.PP
Now, the \fIsyslog-ng\fR service will be reloaded if Clockwork has
to do anything to the \fI/etc/syslog-ng.conf\fR file.

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
