
  Copyright 2011-2015 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

  This file is part of Clockwork.

  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

res_group - Clockwork Resource Type for system group accounts

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The group resource manages system group accounts.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=over

=item B<gid>

Numeric group ID of this account.

=item B<name>

Name of this group account.

=item B<present>

Whether or not this account should exist on the system.

=item B<member>

Adds or removes a user account from the list of permanent group
members.

If set to the name of a user, that user will be added
to the group if they do not already belong.

If the username is prefixed with a "!" (as in, negation), that user
will be removed from the group if they currently belong to it.

=item B<admin>

Adds or removes a user account from the list of group administrators.

If set to the name of a user, that user will be added
to the group administrator list if they are not already on it.

If the username is prefixed with a "!" (as in, negation), that user
will be removed from the group administrator list if they are
currently on it.

=item B<members>

Like B<member>, except that it operates on a space-separated list
of usernames to add or remove.  Negation rules still apply.

=item B<admins>

Like B<admin>, except that it takes a space-separated list
of usernames to add or remove.  Negation rules still apply.

=item B<password>

=item B<pwhash>

The (encrypted) password for this account.  Group passwords are used
to allow non-members to assume temporary membership in a group, if they
know the password.

Details of encryption depend on the specific platform and system
configuration.  Clockwork does not attempt to encrypt or decrypt passwords
for groups.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Basic Group Management

This example ensures that an I<admins> group exists on the system
with a GID of 42.  This type of record can be used in conjunction with
user resources (see B<res_user>(5)) to define primary groups.

    group "admins" {
      gid: 42
    }

=head2 Member Management

In this example, the policy ensures that the "projectx" group exists,
that the users I<jose>, I<bob> and I<eva> belong to the group,
and that I<alice> does not.

    group "projectx" {
      gid:      1337
      password: "!!"

      # add these users
      member:   "jose"
      member:   "bob"
      member:   "eva"

      # remove these (note the '!')
      member:   "!alice"
    }

The B<password> attribute is specified as an invalid hash to ensure
membership in the projectx group is managed strictly by the system
administrators (and, by extension, Clockwork).

Another way to handle the membership list is via B<members>,
like this:

    group "projectx" {
      gid:      1337
      password: "!!"
      members:  "jose bob eva !alice"
    }

=head2 Administrator Management

Management of group administrators works just like group membership
management.  To ensure that I<james> is an admin in the "projectx"
group, but that I<nick> is not:

    group "projectx" {
      gid:   1337
      admin: "james"
      admin: "!nick"
    }

=head1 CAVEATS

=head2 1. Primary vs. Auxiliary Groups

Under conventional user and group mechanics, a user's primary group
is not included in their list of auxiliary groups.  To illustrate,
the following policy snippet does not affect I<joe>'s primary
group:

    group "users" {
        gid:    1234
        member: "!joe"
    }

    user "joe" {
        uid:  100
        gid:  1234
    }

I<joe>'s primary group will still be I<users>, even through
the group definition attempts to remove him.

=head2 2. Duplicate GIDs

Clockwork does not attempt to enforce the uniqueness of group GIDs
on the local system.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
