\"
\"  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH res_host "5" "March 2013" "Clockwork" " Clockwork Resource Types"'"
.SH NAME
.PP
res_host \- Clockwork Resource Type for /etc/hosts entries

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The /etc/hosts file associates IP addresses to hostnames, without the use of external
systems like NIS, LDAP or DNS.  Through the \fBhost\fR resource, a Clockwork policy
can modify individual entries in /etc/hosts, without having to specify a complete map.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.PP

.B hostname
.RS 8
The hostname that the entry should map its IP address to.
.RE

.B ip
.RS 8
The IPv4 or IPv6 address for this entry.
.RE

.B alias
.br
.B aliases
.RS 8
One or more hostname aliases.  If multiple aliases are specified, they must be
separated by a single space.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Basic Usage
.PP
Map 10.0.0.21 to the hostname 'testhost1':
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
host "testhost1" {
    ip: "10.0.0.21"
}
.fi
.RE

.SS Alias Usage
.PP
Map 10.0.0.21 to 'testhost1', but make 'test-1' and 'lab1' aliases:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
host "testhost1" {
    ip:    "10.0.0.21"
    alias: "test-1"
    alias: "lab1"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Same as above, but specify both aliases in a single directive:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
host "testhost1" {
    ip:      "10.0.0.21"
    aliases: "test-1 lab1"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP


.SH CAVEATS
.PP
Clockwork tries to be predictable and not clever.  As such, it does not
attempt to deal with certain edge cases that crop up when managing
hosts file entries.  Namely:

.SS 1. Consolidating Hosts
.RS 4
.PP
If /etc/hosts contains the following:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
172.16.0.45   hosta
172.16.0.46   hostb
172.16.0.47   hostc
.fi
.RE
.PP
And the policy manifest only specifies these host resources:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
host "hostb" { ip: "172.16.0.45" }
host "hostc" { ip: "172.16.0.47" }
.fi
.RE
.PP
Clockwork will not remove the entry for \fIhosta\fR.  It won't even
modify the entry for \fIhostb\fR, but will instead append a fourth:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
172.16.0.45   hosta
172.16.0.46   hostb
172.16.0.47   hostc
172.16.0.45   hostb
.fi
.RE
.PP
.RE

.SS 2. Overlapping Canonical and Alias Hostnames
.PP
Clockwork does not try to reconciliate overlap between canonical hostnames
and aliases. If you are experiencing issues in this space, please contact
the developers so that we can understand your needs.

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
None.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.

.SH BUGS
.PP
There is currently no way to remove a host entry.
.PP
There really should be an implicit dependency on /etc/hosts, if defined in
the policy.  That way, host resources take precedence over file resources,
and administrators can push out a base /etc/hosts via \fBres_file\fR(5), and
then tweak it with \fBres_host\fR.
.PP
Caveat #1 (see \fBCAVEATS\fR) could be side-stepped if a new attribute was
introduced to: \fBexclusive\fR.  This attribute could be set to "ip" or
"hostname" and would instruct the fixup routines to kill off all other entries
matching either the IP or the hostname (but not necessarily both).
