
  Copyright 2011-2014 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>

  This file is part of Clockwork.

  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=head1 NAME

res_dir - Clockwork Resource Type for system directories

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<res_dir> resource gives administrators a way to manage
the presence of directories and the permissions on them.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=over

=item B<path>

The path (from the client's point of view) to the directory to
be managed.

=item B<owner>

The name of the user who should own the directory.

=item B<group>

The name of the group who should own this directory.

=item B<mode>

The permissions set for this directory.  THe value must be
specified in octal notation, i.e. 0750 for rwxr-x---.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Basic Usage

The following policy configuration would create /srv/www, and
make it readable, writable and traversable by the apache user
(for running Apache) and the web group (people who manage the
code and content of web sites).

    dir "/srv/www" {
        owner: "apache"
        group: "web"
        mode:  "0775"
    }

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

Directory resources implicitly create the following dependencies:

=head2 User Owner (owner)

If the B<owner> attribute is specified, the directory resource will depend on the
existence of that user.  This is designed to ensure that directories
are owned by valid system users.

=head2 Group Owner (group)

If the B<group> attribute is specified, the directory resource will depend on the
existence of that group.  This is designed to ensure that directories
are owned by valid system groups.

=head2 Parent Directories

Missing directories in between the directory path and the root (/)
will be created if necessary (for existant resources).
By default, these parent directories will be owned by root:root with
mode 0755.  However, if the policy defines other directory resources
with matching paths, they will be marked as dependencies.

An example should clear up any confusion:

    dir "/u/apps" {
        owner: "webmaster"
        group: "web"
        mode:  0755
    }

    dir "/u/apps/test.example.net" {
        owner: "apache"
        group: "web"
        mode:  0775
    }

If the above policy was enforced on a host without the /u directory,
the following would happen (in order):

=over

=item 1. Create /u, per defaults (root:root; 0755)

=item 2. Create /u/apps, per policy (webmaster:web; 0755)

=item 3. Create /u/apps/test.example.net, per policy (apache:web; 0775)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR

=cut
