\"
\"  Copyright 2011 James Hunt <james@jameshunt.us>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

\" FIXME: Adjust Title Line
.TH res_RESTYPE "5" "June 2011" "Clockwork" " Clockwork Resource Types"'"
\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
\" FIXME: Adjust NAME section
res_RESTYPE \- Clockwork Resource Type for DESCRIPTIONHERE
.br

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\" FIXME: Write a description
Describe the purpose of this resource type, and its value

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ATTRIBUTES

.B ATTR
.br
.B ALIAS
.RS 8
A brief description of the attribute, its purpose and possible values
or expected format.
.RE
.PP

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
\" FIXME: Provide examples
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Use Subsections
A description of your example.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
host "testhost1" {
    ip: "10.0.0.21"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP


\"----------------------------------------------------------------
\" FIXME: Provide caveats
.SH CAVEATS
List out potential caveats and gotchas that administrators should
care about.  If there are none, just put:
None
.PP
.SS 1. Use Subsections
.PP
Each caveat should be its own subsection, with manual numbering.
This makes it easier to reference a particular caveat later.

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
\" FIXME: Provide dependencies
.SH DEPENDENCIES
List out the (implicit) dependencies that an instance of this resource
can be expected to have.  If there are none, just put:
None.

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Clockwork was conceived and written by James Hunt.
\" FIXME: if contributor is not James Hunt, append this:
\".PP
\"res_RESTYPE was contributed by NAME <EMAIL>
.PP
Original ideas were stolen from
.B CFEngine
(Mark Burgess) and
.B Puppet
(Luke Kanies).

\"----------------------------------------------------------------
\" FIXME: Provide bugs
.SH BUGS
List out known or suspected bugs, and describe their impact on
administrators.  If there are none, just put:
None.
