\"
\"  Copyright 2011-2013 James Hunt <james@niftylogic.com>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH cwpol "1" "March 2013" "Clockwork" "Clockwork Policy Agent"
.SH NAME
.PP
cwpol \- Clockwork Policy Explorer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B cwpol
[options]
.I /path/to/manifest/file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Clockwork
is a system configuration management system designed to securely enforce
policies on one or more host systems.  It can ensure that files have the
prescribed attributes (owner, group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It
can maintain a specific set of installed packages, and even make sure that
system user accounts exist.
.PP
.B cwpol
is a utility for administrators and policy developers that exposes the
internals of a policy manifest, letting you explore how a policy would
be implemented by the client agents.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP

\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-execute\fR \fIcommand\fR
.RS 8
Execute arbitrary commands.  Multiple commands must be separated by
a semi-colon (;) with optional whitespace.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 8
Show a brief summary of the options that \fBcwpol\fR takes.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 8
Increase the verbosity of \fBcwpol\fR.  Can be used multple
times; each time it increases the log level by one.
.PP
\fBNote: cwpol\fR doesn't log to a file, it write all log messages
to standard output.  If you wish to save cwpol output, use your shell's
IO redirection capabilities.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 8
Print version and copyright information, and then exit.  If specified,
any command script is ignored, as well as the \fB\-e\fR option.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
In interactive mode and script interpreter mode, \fBcwpol\fR always
exits with status 0.
.PP
If \fB-e\fR is used, \fBcwpol\fR exits with status 0 if all commands
completed successfully, and exits non-zero when the first command
(which may be the only command) fails.

.SH FILES
.PP
None

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBpolicyd\fR(1), \fBpolicyd.conf\fR(5) and \fBcwa.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
