\"
\"  Copyright 2011-2013 James Hunt <james@niftylogic.com>
\"
\"  This file is part of Clockwork.
\"
\"  Clockwork is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
\"  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
\"  (at your option) any later version.
\"
\"  Clockwork is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
\"
\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
\"  along with Clockwork.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\"

.TH cwa "1" "September 2013" "Clockwork" "Clockwork Template Utility"
.SH NAME
.PP
cwtemplate \- Clockwork Template Utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B cwtemplate
template-file > out-file
.br
.B cwtemplate
-c /path/to/cwa.conf template-file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Clockwork
is a system configuration management system designed to securely enforce
policies on one or more host systems.  It can ensure that files have the
prescribed attributes (owner, group, permissions, etc.) and content.  It
can maintain a specific set of installed packages, and even make sure that
system user accounts exist.
.PP
.B cwtemplate
is a utility program to aide in the creation of fact-based file templates.
It renders a single template against various sets of facts, either gathered
from the running system, specified in a cache file, or set via command-line
arguments.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 8
Print version and copyright information.
.RE

\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fI/path/to/cwa.conf\fR
.RS 8
Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not given, the
default configuration file (/etc/clockwork/cwa.conf) is used instead.
.RE

\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-facts\fR \fI/path/to/cached.facts\fR
.RS 8
Tell \fBcwtemplate\fR to read facts from a file, where each line is a fact,
and takes the form of \fBkey=values\\n\fR.  If specified, gathered facts
are ignored.
.RE

\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fact\fR \fIfact=value\fR
.RS 8
Override a single fact with a new value.  This can be used with either
gathered or cached facts; command-line facts always take precedence.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.B cwtemplate
exits 0 if it was able to read fact data, parse the template and render
it to standard output. Otherwise, a non-zero exit code is used.

.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B /etc/clockwork/cwa.conf
Default configuration file that
.B cwa
reads on start up.  See \fBcwa.conf\fR(5) for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBclockwork\fR(7), \fBcwa.conf\fR(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Clockwork was designed and written by James Hunt.
